# BIOMD0000000542: MODEL1408150000

## Installation

Download this repository, and install with distutils

`python setup.py install`

Or, install using pip

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/BIOMD0000000542.git`

To install a specific version (in this example, from the 2014-09-16 BioModels release)

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/BIOMD0000000542.git@20140916`


# Model Notes


Yuraszeck2010 - Vulnerabilities in the Tau Network in Tau Pathophysiology

This model is described in the article:

[Vulnerabilities in the tau network and the role of ultrasensitive points in
tau pathophysiology.](http://identifiers.org/pubmed/21085645)

Yuraszeck TM, Neveu P, Rodriguez-Fernandez M, Robinson A, Kosik KS, Doyle FJ
3rd.

PLoS Comput. Biol. 2010; 6(11): e1000997

Abstract:

The multifactorial nature of disease motivates the use of systems-level
analyses to understand their pathology. We used a systems biology approach to
study tau aggregation, one of the hallmark features of Alzheimer's disease. A
mathematical model was constructed to capture the current state of knowledge
concerning tau's behavior and interactions in cells. The model was implemented
in silico in the form of ordinary differential equations. The identifiability
of the model was assessed and parameters were estimated to generate two
cellular states: a population of solutions that corresponds to normal tau
homeostasis and a population of solutions that displays aggregation-prone
behavior. The model of normal tau homeostasis was robust to perturbations, and
disturbances in multiple processes were required to achieve an aggregation-
prone state. The aggregation-prone state was ultrasensitive to perturbations
in diverse subsets of networks. Tau aggregation requires that multiple
cellular parameters are set coordinately to a set of values that drive
pathological assembly of tau. This model provides a foundation on which to
build and increase our understanding of the series of events that lead to tau
aggregation and may ultimately be used to identify critical intervention
points that can direct the cell away from tau aggregation to aid in the
treatment of tau-mediated (or related) aggregation diseases including
Alzheimer's.

This model is hosted on [BioModels Database](http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/)
and identified by:
[BIOMD0000000542](http://identifiers.org/biomodels.db/BIOMD0000000542).

To cite BioModels Database, please use: [BioModels Database: An enhanced,
curated and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic
models](http://identifiers.org/pubmed/20587024).

To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.


